the birth process needs to be redone simplify we dont need all the soul echo or miscarriage stuff. 
it should be a simple thing we initate birth, we apply a little bit of stress to the field, we only 
need to validate if we have a brain structure, if we have a brain grid, if we have a mirror grid, 
basic neural network and basic mycelial network and energy storage. everything else would have hard 
failed in all other stages if we did not have it. this is the last stage so we know we passed others. 
why do we then have to do the brain stuff because they incorporate into other processes so i need to ensure 
they actually worked as they are not stages on own but need to be incorporated here. there is no memory veil remove. 
check if life cord is not attached at life cord stage. if isnt then fine attach here. check other stage 1 files 
ensure we have not integrated brain somewhere i dont want duplication. if we have not added the brain formation 
in other stages we need to add it here at start before the checks. so brain seed creation, brain creation, 
brain grid validation ie all sub regions created all nodes created, test if nodes can be activated and deactivated, 
check nodes only activated the nodes specified in constants/formula, check if check if energy storage is 
there and that energy transfer from mycelial seed to nodes is happening and math is correct ie minus 
from energy storage transfer to seed, seed sends to node, node returns to seed, seed returns to storage. 
for memory fragments that is different because the memory fragments created in mirror grid for each 
sensory data capture received photonic energy not just normal energy. so energy from energy storage goes to seed, 
seed simulates photon creation enough to power the 10 sensory capture fragments and transfers to photons to each. 
so the energy in this case is just powering the seed to create photons. the energy is transformed to photons so there 
needs to be a process to recreate normal energy to return it to energy storage. we used phi and sacred geometry to 
produce energy sparks before and to enhance energy we already had so use something similar. why am i being so detailed 
because although we need to redo birth we also have to create a basic neural network and mycelial network. 
it isnt the network itself see brain structure i am not creating visuals like branching or synapses its not necessary. 
so the seeds and nodes required are there so we are only creating the basic functional processes these will do for 
beginning we will make a more advanced process later. for now we need to control energy flow see energy systems 
for that, see mycelial seeds for how they are going to work, then add to basic mycelial network the monitoring 
and processing and changing of state based on brain states. do not use the cognitive states we developed because 
that is for the main system when we start training. mycelial network basic function sensory data capture, 
then some basic patterns for that data so conceptualisation clustering etc for each fragment. then second step 
more advanced calculations for the patterns when we now integrate all the sensory data. then 
we will label the data, organise as per the full sensory data dictionary. then the 3rd step does basic classification
and labelling using a model to help and tools to update the semantic world map dictionary. the 4th step is where the 
neural network gets the information from the mycelial network and then does its own calculations to get basic patterns, 
then does a second step to do more advanced calcs. i the information is dissonant it may pass back data to mycelial to 
reprocess patterns. should not happen much beause we should have checks and balances for both basic and advanced calculations.
but if it does come back to mycelial it must rerun its calculations in full which means it must delete its updates for that 
fragment process id. so thinking we have a fragment processid and then fragment ids for each sensory capture.
once conscious brain happy and its rerun its step 1 and 2 the neural net adds the data to the node with extra labels,
extra info and summarises the knowledge for node capture. the mycelial network keeps all raw data and patterns but the 
neural node has a more summarised version with a lot more semanticlabels, tags and ways to search stuff and obviously
still has the patterns and its coordinates and connected routes/coordinates. 